Document air_quality triggers & conditions (#44955)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_conditions/air_quality.is_n2o_value.markdown

This passes when the greenhouse N2O sensor reads at or above 500 ppb.

### Options in YAML

YAML sometimes provides additional options for more complex use cases that are not available through the UI.

{% options_yaml %}
threshold:
  description: >
    The nitrous oxide level the sensor has to meet or exceed for the condition to pass. Accepts a number or a reference to an `input_number`, `number`, or `sensor` entity.
  required: true
  type: any
behavior:
  description: >
    When multiple sensors are targeted, controls how results combine. Accepts `all` or `any`.
  required: true
  type: string
  default: any
{% endoptions_yaml %}

{% include conditions/targets.md %}

{% include conditions/behavior.md %}

## Good to know

- Sensors that are unavailable (`unavailable`) or have an unknown state (`unknown`) are skipped for **Any** and fail for **All**.
- For related nitrogen-based pollutants, see [Nitrogen monoxide value](/conditions/air_quality.is_no_value/) and [Nitrogen dioxide value](/conditions/air_quality.is_no2_value/).

{% include conditions/try_it.md %}

{% include conditions/more_examples.md %}

### Automation: ventilate the greenhouse each morning only if N2O is elevated

> Fertilizer off-gassing pushes N2O levels up overnight in an enclosed greenhouse, especially on warm nights. This automation runs each morning at sunrise and checks the current reading. If N2O is at or above 500 ppb, the ventilation fan turns on so the air is fresh before you start working. On mornings when levels stayed low, the fan stays off, keeping the greenhouse warm and saving energy.

Reviewer: Simplify "push up" -> raise

```suggestion
Fertilizer off-gassing raises N2O levels overnight in an enclosed greenhouse, especially on warm nights. This automation runs each morning at sunrise and checks the current reading. If N2O is at or above 500 ppb, the ventilation fan turns on so the air is fresh before you start working. On mornings when levels stayed low, the fan stays off, keeping the greenhouse warm and saving energy.
```
